- Error handling is an important part
of application development.
It allows the developer to prevent the application
from abnormal termination
while also providing a great place
for troubleshooting break points
when issues do arise.
What makes it powerful for developers
also makes it attractive for bad actors.
One of the most frequent vulnerabilities
comes from information disclosure
through error messaging.
In these vulnerabilities the application raises
an error that produces an error status.
This error status usually results
in a message or a redirect in the web world.
The vulnerability arises when that error message
discloses information such as a stack trace
or a database dump.
This information can be very valuable
for an attacker trying to gain entry
to your system.
Even the disclosure of your internal error codes
can be used to attack your system.
Even how you raise an error
can provide an attack point.
One of the most common issues
that I have seen in applications
of every type is in user authentication flows.
Often, developers provide different error messages
if the user doesn't exist
versus the wrong password was entered.
This level of disclosure can provide
a bad actor a brute force vector into your system.
All of these situations are easy to prevent.
We must first accept
that error conditions will always exist.
We need them to exist on our applications
for flow control and to protect us from crashing.
The fix isn't to prevent the errors,
it's to accept them and make conscious decisions
about what information we display.
In either error case from our previous example,
the developer should only disclose
that the situation exists,
not which case we're in.
The language should be consistent
so a valid user can take appropriate action,
but a bad actor won't be given too much information.
It takes some time to get good
at using consistent language,
but often it is just a matter
of taking the time to document the messages.
Review the textual display
and make sure that errors don't disclose
internal system information.
Also, ensure that they don't display information
about your users to attackers.
Code reviews and documentation
can help a bunch in these cases,
but an even better model
is to actually test your error states.
When you do so, you can provide guidance
through the test
about what text should be displayed
and what shouldn't be.
This can also be a great exercise
to ensure your error messages
are consistent, valuable,
and don't disclose sensitive information.